So what is an API gateway? In order to
understand an API gateway, it makes
sense for us to first chronicle its
recent history. And so we can start with
the 2000s. In the 2000s, most production
services just lived in a single
monolith. This meant that the client
would hit a single URL which would route
things to this large monolith or single
server which handled every single
feature and talk to the database when
needed. It was a dead simple
architecture and it was really easy to
reason about. But then fast forward to
the 2010 2012 range. These are loose
numbers. Growth forced a new trend of
the industry where we slice that
monolith into a bunch of different
microservices. Hence microser
architecture. But now this client has an
issue that it ran into. It has to either
know the URL of every single one of the
microservices and when to call each of
them respectively or alternatively it
would route all of its requests to a
single microser like microser one and
then microser one would need to
determine when to forward that request
on to the other
microservices. Either of these
approaches was clumsy. Now the big issue
with the second approach was that if we
ever wanted to change some simple
routing logic we would need to redeploy
an entire microser. This wasn't ideal.
And so fast forwarding then just one
year 2013 to 2014ish area. This is when
we introduced the first generation API
gateways by putting a thin layer in
front of those microservices. And so now
clients could stick to just one
endpoint. They only needed to know one
endpoint like in the beginning and it
would be the endpoint of the API gateway
whose responsibility is to determine
which micros service that request should
be routed to and then route it to the
appropriate microser. And so at this
point now our routing issues are solved.
But there was one more problem and
that's that each of these microservices
here had all of this repeated
boilerplate. They had the same code
shared amongst all of them. Things like
authentication, rate limiting, logging,
all of this was repeated. And so the
realization, and this has kind of
continued through the mid2010s all the
way until now, was that we can kind of
put some of this shared middleware into
the API gateway. So all of these
repeatable chores could live in this
thin layer. And we taught the gateway to
do things like terminate TLS, verify O
tokens, throttle abusers, uh log
metrics. It can even cache some common
responses that can all happen here along
with that routing. And so now every
single team just focus on shipping pure
business logic and the client only needs
a single URL and we have our gateway in
the middle which is kind of that shared
guard rail for our entire platform. And
so this is where we ended up. This is
where we are today with an API gateway
that sits in front of our microservices
where importantly its main
responsibility is still to handle that
routing uh but it also handles a bunch
of standard middleware operations as
well. Now we can take a look at what is
actually happening inside that API
gateway. Let's zoom in just a little
bit. And so here is my little nifty
drawing of the API gateway. We have all
of our clients making requests. Those
requests are being forwarded on to each
of our services respectively. And then
back to the client. And so as you can
see within the API gateway, it's
responsible for four main things.
Validating the request, running that
middleware, routing to the correct
services, and then transforming the
response. And so let's quickly go by or
go through each of these one by one. And
so the first is that request validation.
And so this just takes in the incoming
requests and it validates it. It makes
sure that it has the proper formatting.
Does it have the right headers? Does it
have the right body if needed? If not,
we can immediately reject it. If it
does, we move on to step two. Step two
is where we run any of that middleware
that we talked about. And so oftent
times this involves us actually making a
request to an external service. Like
maybe if we're handling rate limiting,
we have Reddus over here. and the API
gateway makes a request out to Reddus or
in the case of O maybe there's an
external O service over here, right? Uh
in either case, we can make as many of
those connections as we need to, but be
mindful every single request is doing
this. So we want it to be fast and then
we route it to the correct service. So
this is again that most important bit.
So we would look up in a routing map and
let me actually copy one of those in
here so you can see it. This would just
be a basic config like this which maps
paths from the API route to the location
of the services. And so we would look up
in this map say I just got a uh request
for slash messages route that needs to
go to the messaging service. see how
that works here using this config. And
then the messaging service or whichever
service is going to do its thing,
processing the request as needed and
then returning that response back to the
API gateway at which point the API
gateway may need to transform that
response. And so for example, if any of
these were using a different protocol
like RPC, gRPC, something like this, and
our clients are using REST, then what
would happen is that we would take in
that RPC response, transform it back
into valid JSON in the form of that's
expected uh in the REST response and
then return that REST response back to
our clients. Let's take a quick look at
some of the most popular API gateways
that are used in production systems
today. And so you have two classes here.
You have the managed API gateways. These
are part of your managed cloud solutions
like in AWS, Amazon's API gateway in
Azure, Microsoft Azure. You have Azure's
API management. I'm sure that Google
Cloud has an equivalent too. I actually
don't know it off the top of my head.
And then you have the open source
alternatives. So things like Kong, Tyke,
Express Gateway. These are some of the
most popular. So if you've ever used any
of these technologies, you've already
used an API gateway. Um, okay. As we
wrap up here, the main thing that I want
you to have as a takeaway from this is
actually the following. And that's that
when you're in a system design
interview, put your API gateway down and
move on. Don't spend a lot of time on
it. The reality is that with a microser
architecture, an API gateway is an
expectation. It's largely taken for
granted. And so, put it there. Explain
that it handles routing, maybe some
middleware, but keep moving. The only
mistake you could make is to spend too
much time here. It's just not the
important part of your design. So, it's
good to understand, but it shouldn't be
the focus. All right, with that, this
was short, sweet, to the point.
Hopefully, you guys found it valuable.
Um, good luck with your upcoming
interviews, and I'll see you again soon.